Jon: frequency of update. There are multiple use cases here. Different
frequency of update for each. Do we specify differences here, how do you
see the balance here?

Sanjay: SCONE is (kind of) agnostic to update frequency. How the UPF
gets the information may vary. Throughput advice might be based on the
data plan only, or additional network information. Each network operator
will have a different way of determining the value. We're saying the UPF
is the place to send the information though.

Marcus: It looks like we're converging on an upper limit on frequency of
changes, at least looking at the protocol. We probably shouldn't talk
about congestion control as input here; it's very overloaded.

Jon: Do you have a better term to use here?

Marcus: We should define one.

Brian (chair hat): please paint that bikeshed

Tianji: re dynamic update, congestion will be on the wireless part,
while SCONE is more on the IP part. *ed. note: missed some of this*

Zahed: With respect to RAT changes, what are the cases where the network
wants to trigger an update? There are other inputs, service policy, but
RAT can have drastic changes (e.g. 5G to 4G drop); server or client
might not have visibility. Can discuss mroe if this is a valid case or
not.

Tianji: with respect to rapid changes, RAT might involve completely
different technology. Same RAT with radio dynamic is more applicable
here than flipping stacks.

Zahed: No, this isn't about mobility.

Marcus: re conformance monitoring. Agree here, a comment on the use of
normative language in the statements. There's a MUST here; don't think
we need to be that strong. You can implement this and have it work
without that.

Zahed: Network as a whole needs to monitor conformance, doesn't
necessarily need to be directly here.

Sanjay: you can go to my personal github and open an issue. or we can
adopt the doc and put an issue in the WG github. :) On this issue, 4.12
also says that operators may integrate into existing OSS/MSS.

Tianji: suggestion with respect to ECN... I can't see a straightforward
way to harmonize ECN and throughput guidance by policy. If this is
applied at entering UPF and IUPF, those can do SCONE advice. This seems
like too much restriction.

Marcus: Recommendation here is fine, if you have multiple user plane
devices you probably shouldn't be sending advice from all of them.
Chained nodes in your own network sending different advice is not
useful. It should be possible to harmonize with ECN. These are
orthogonal features. There may be specifics, document doesn't need to
specify them.

Zahed: I don't think we should say anything about this at all. I think
they're orthogonal. Harmonization might not be unniversal. We might need
to warn people about multiple different domains.

Sanjay: I put this here because of the discussions here, but I do
believe it's important to say that SCONE is independent of transport
level CC, and we should say that as often as we can. Recognize the
decision on the throughput advice might take information from network
congestion management.

Brian: what Sanjay and Marcus said.

Sanjay: (On "scone signaling aligns with 3gpp specs") we need to make
sure we align with 3GPP specs, and use the correct terminology, but we
should also use a simplified subset of this terminology in this
document.

