# SCONE working group 4th virtual interim meeting   {#scone-working-group-4th-virtual-interim-meeting}

April 30, 2025  
21:00 to 22:30 UTC time

Chairs: Brian Trammell, Qin Wu

Notes: Wesley Eddy, Qin Wu  
Introduction (Chairs)

*   Meeting objective is to work on the protocol open issues discussion.
*   Focus on Work Item 1: Protocol Framing.

## SCONE Protocol Open Issues Discussion (Marcus Ihlar/Martin Thomson)   {#scone-protocol-open-issues-discussion-marcus-ihlarmartin-thomson}

*   Marcus feels we are close to a state where the document can be
    published for an adoption call. A number of issues remain, but they
    can be handled by the WG after adoption.
*   One major discussion still needed is in a PR rather than an issue in
    Github. Matt will lead discussion on it later.
*   Two PRs:
    *   Renaming "TRONE" to "SCONE".
    *   Add "TRONE indication"

*   Gorry asked if there is alignment on naming, and asked chairs to
    make sure there is agreement prior to adoption.
    *   Marcus clarified that the authors have agreed, and there is no
        pushback at the moment.
    *   Qin agreed to notify the list after the meeting.
    *   Mirja reminded that this is an individual draft, so the authors
        should agree, and a separate WG consensus call isn't needed.

*   Mirja asked about resolution of the question on an ACK.
    *   Marcus said there was rough agreement in the prior meeting that
        it may not be needed, but in any case doesn't need to be
        addressed for adoption.
    *   Mirja would like the status to be summarized for each issue in
        github.

*   Christian agreed that the naming is an author's decision at the
    moment, and WG can chime in when adopted.
    *   Marcus plans to submit a version with the new name and then do
        adoption call, and Gorry agreed.

### Issue #26 on Multipath and Issue #27 on CID rotation   {#issue-26-on-multipath-and-issue-27-on-cid-rotation}

Marcus would like to postpone these until after adoption.

Christian agrees. State "don't assume that a given application will use
one path or CID won't change" for now.

Christian pointed out the example of a multipath connection using the
same 4-tuple but different sets of DS codepoints.

Martin said to assume that different markings may have different
treatments by networks.

Marcus suggests adding DSCP to the current "4-tuple" flow definition.

### Issue #24 frequency of sending SCONE packets   {#issue-24-frequency-of-sending-scone-packets}

### Issue #17 rounding behavior   {#issue-17-rounding-behavior}

### PR #23 Add "TRONE indication"   {#pr-23-add-trone-indication}

Matt Joras shared slides.

*   Reviewed existing practices, based on SNI for flow type detection,
    and potential for SCONE to improve the situation.
*   PR has had a lot of discussion on github.
*   Question is if this is something we want to do in the protocol. Not
    having this could be a problem in some deployments. This could be a
    feature to encourage deployment.

Martin: if every client and server on network do SCONE, then network
elements won't need this. The adoption point is the key one; for some
period of time there will be a mix of flows that do and don't support
SCONE. Originally thought that the problem was dealing with uncertainty
if flows would behave according to the signals. Maybe we'll always be in
a transition. Agree w/ Michael that DPI will not go away altogether.

Matt: agree DPI will still exist, but it would be compelling for
operators if it can be reduced.

Kazuho: agree with benefits in discussing this. Rate limiting of
specific services is why DPI was needed. SCONE complements congestion
control at a larger time scale, and is generic enough for any traffic.
Why do we need a flag that identifies a particular type of traffic?

Marcus: thinks SCONE can provide general guidance for any traffic, but
what's really driving this is current practice of rate-limiting adaptive
traffic. One of the main motivations for operators is to get this
information very cheaply and reduce complexity in the network. In
transitional period, networks will be able to omit SNI-parsing for
SCONE-capable flows. Belives this is an important thing.

Mirja: Doesn't make sense for all traffic to be SCONE enabled; it is
only for adaptive traffic. Getting guidance on a good rate is helpful
for some apps, but not just all kinds of QUIC traffic. Assumption this
is useful for all QUIC traffic is not good. Agrees this would be really
useful as an identifier.

Sanjay Mishra: indication allows network to differentiate and avoid DPI.
Give SCONE this advantage. If network has to perform the DPI, then there
is no incentive for network; once going down the DPI path, it is stuck
with. This aid adoption and deployability.

Renjie Tang: agree w/ Sanjay's point. If the middleboxes can be helped
to get away from DPI, that will help to adopt. Can we change this so
that the signal can go to the server; would that help to acheive the
goal?

Christian: to answer Renjie's question, the design has a good reason; it
has to come on the same path as the traffic. To the general point, what
is the reason for a network to deploy SCONE? what is the reason for an
application using SCONE? Network wants to because traffic is
volunteering to be slowed down, but for application this isn't a great
deal. The benefit is getting information about what the network will do.
Design could make it attractive for network but not application or vice
versa; think about game theory perspective how to push both to do it.

Kazuho: important point is that indications can be abused. Regardless of
indications, network elements have to monitor and go back to throttling
if needed. Given this, question is if we need the indication at all.

Martin: Question is whether the indication is a promise or just asking
to receive signals. This should just be that the endpoint is capable of
receiving the signal, that's all.

Renjie: signal won't prevent DPI.

Matt: this shouldn't change privacy properties; all of the same
information is available to a wire observer, whether or not you have an
indication. This will help deployment, which is a good thing.

Lucas Pardue: interacts with browsers a lot; they aren't the only user
agent. I don't see why we'd bother trying to invent something that is a
non-starter.

Sanjay: firmly believe that success of SCONE hinges upon the network
knowing the indication. It's just a way for the network to know that the
application supports SCONE.

Marcus: there are different policies where this matters. Abusing such as
Kazuho's example assumes those flows would have been rate limited
otherwise. Short flows would have typically been unaffected anyways,
rather than video flows.

Kazuho: agrees there are data plans, and operators can have policies for
them. There are cases where some of the flow might want SCONE and others
can't respect it. Those deployment cases make it harder to detect and
determine abuse.

Matt: it's fine to doubt, but is it a reason not to build? We are not
hearing that this is damaging/harmful.

Renjie: question on when to send signals. It's pretty straightforward
for andriod, iOS clients to send signals, but how does browser know
natural video flow and send signal?

Christian: privacy issue; do not believe that video should be treated
specially.

Martin: completely agrees with everything Christian said. No way to
implement in Firefox if it says what users are doing.

Qin: Marcus/Matt do you think this should be integrated before we go for
adoption?

Matt: Would really like if it was. Agree with technical difficulties
raised, but think we can overcome and it's worth the time to do so.
Having some indication as part of the adopted document is valuable, and
we can rip out later.

Marcus: Agree; would be good to have from start and can rip out. Would
note that for any flow where application client and server know each
other, you can already do this. Fully agree these discussion are
separate from the indication question.

Martin: "you ain't gonna need it" advocate; would like to see material
value in transition phase. There is no guarantee that this will lead to
less DPI.

Christian: same boat as Martin.

## Conclusion (Chairs)   {#conclusion-chairs}

Next Step  
Qin: the first one We as chairs will kick off adoption call on scone
protocol draft when the new version gets posted. Also for indication
issue, please take offline, which needs more discussion.  
Qin: our next interim meeting will be May 21.expect to see other
proposals related to applicability and managability can make more
progress. Thanks everyone, have a good day.

