Standard Communication with Network Elements  
(SCONE) Virtual Interim  
Focus: SCONE Protocol Finalizing  
August 26, 2025 (21:00-22:30 UTC)

Brian (chair hat): AI to update the charter to push out the
applicability/manageability milestone past Montreal, as we should hold
it open for implementation experience.

close on the following issues to allow us to finalize -scone-protocol:

*   initial indication: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scone/scone/issues/5

Martin Thomson:

Gorry: where did the two silly numbers come from?

Martin Thomson: tool that generates QUIC versions from a string; just
using two bytes from that. Randomly selected is probably the best.

Mirja: is this YA way to extend QUIC? did we want to invent that?

MT: apparently so

Martin Duke: for the first packet in a migration, that'll be a short
header, which you can't do this on.

MT: yep.

*   injection advice: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scone/scone/issues/21

MT: bunch of discussion here. we could stop network elements from doing
this, have not done so. we encourage endpoints to send frequently so the
network doesn't feel like it needs to inject. recommendation / alignment
on issue is not do say anything.

Alan: so an endpoint won't blow up if the network injects?

MT: we are remaining silent.

Alan: we are reserving the right to blow up in the future?

MT: not doing anything either way.

Alan: how is that better than saying "in this version, don't do it?"
interop risk seems high here.

MT: yes, we could do this.

Marcus: simple statement without enforcement suffices.

Martin Duke: you don't know the packet will be routed somewhere where it
won't just drop.

Brian: there's a temptation not to point things like the possibility of
injection out, but in this case it's fairly obvious.

Mirja: enforcement would be an attack vector. receiver side can always
use it or ignore it.

MT: we could create a system wherein injected packets would be
always-ignored.

Jon Varsanik: (missing)

*   time window: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scone/scone/issues/20

Matt Joras: maybe we don't have enough information? Vendor pointed out
they might not want to update every one, and they might not be all that
excited about the time window. Maybe we need to

MT: we need to break this down. one: unknown signal or not? no harm.
two: does a signal time out after some period of time? three:
forgetfulness when rate limit drops. I think this is unavoidable, see
Kazuho's argument which is a particular argument for not doing to. Jon:
reason you need a timeout is reroute or new path, new set of network
elements. Advice on previous path no longer holds.

Matt: Is some of this mitigated by endpoint discretion and more frequent
sending of packets? Endpoint can always speed up.

MT: still need to invalidate information

Marcus: having a time window is the absolutely simplest solution we can
come up with with, this is the baseline we should start with. vendors
that don't want to mark every packet and don't want time windows...
that's difficult, please pick a feasible position.

Brian Trammell (no chair hat): what marcus said, basically. this looks
coherent and reasonable, maybe we merge it and try to break it in
Montreal.

Wes: maybe we don't need to take a position here, leave it to the
network and the endpoints to do what is reeasonable. we're providing
advice. we're not chartered for enforcement mechanisms. congestion
control still exists. original reaction to this PR: this is very
complicated, tying too much to the time window. this is overspecified.

Jon Varsanik: let's not overspecify it. do some of these things get
solved with more frequent endpoint signaling?

Martin Duke: would it be an issue for anyone to put something in the
spec that says "only one scone speaker in the path"

MT: don't think we can say that. not everyone has that much control over
the network, and can confidently deploy scone.

MD: falling back on congestion control, it's maybe okay to do so if you
have two AS's doing this.

MT: most likely case is zero or one.

Wes: observation: not all advice is good advice

MT: from the chat, minfilter approach, this is what's in 46.

MT: any objections to merging...?

