SCONE interim meeting 2025-07-02

## Hackathon Plan for IETF 123   {#hackathon-plan-for-ietf-123}

Wes Eddy presenting.

See https://wiki.ietf.org/en/meeting/123/hackathon#SCONE

Qin: Thanks to Wes for taking the initiative here! Perhaps send a
cross-invitation to the QUIC mailing list?

Wes: Happy to do that!

## Use Cases and Requirements Update   {#use-cases-and-requirements-update}

Sanjay Mishra presenting. No discussion.

## Issues Scrub   {#issues-scrub}

Markus: Since last time, one noncontroversial pull request. Not much
other activity. Looking at the issues, no update on issue 5. Issue 35 on
aggregate vs per flow measurement, no progress. Think we're solid on the
protocol, need to do some interop which will find new issues.

Dan: would be nice to do add some labels splitting "semantics" from
"protocol", doesn't look like we're making much progress on the former.
In particular, have a draft from a few months ago on this, need
something in the draft covering terminology/semantics, etc.

Markus: Agree; Anoop's presentation last time WRT averaging windows
nudges us in that direction. Need to translate that into an issue. Will
label issues.

## Chair comments   {#chair-comments}

Brian: let's take an hour back then; we'll review the interim cadence in
Madrid.

