The 6th SCONE interim Meeting  
Meeting Time: June 11 2025 15:00-16:30 UTC Time  
Meeting Link:
https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?group=91b83bbc-e049-4172-b064-103c19f5783b

Chairs: Brian Trammell, Qin Wu  
Notes Takers:

Agenda  
Welcome  
Session Intro & WG Status (5 mins)  
Presenter: Chairs  
Work items  
SCONE Protocol Open Issues Discussion (80 mins)  
Presenters: Marcus Ihlar/Martin Thomson/Anoop Tomar  
WG Draft: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-scone-protocol-00 

WG github: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scone/scone/issues

\#20 Time window for suggested bitrate

(Anoop presents slides)

Markus: 120s seems reasonable, my first guess was 60s. Not many changes
between sliding window and block; given that, how detailed do you think
we need to specify this? Different network elements might do different
things depending on what we write.

Anoop: Important to specify that measurement is per-flow.

Dan Druta: just opened an issue yesterday on clarity of advice, VSDR
draft captures some of this. Clarify we're looking at aggregate bitrate
per n-tuple, because that's all we see on the wire.

Anoop: All discussion is happening in the context of per-flow
measurement.

Dan: Policies are not set on a per-flow basis though. Need to dig into
this a bit more.

Kazuho: Do we know why the window has to be bigger when the bitrate is
low? Lowest bitrate is in the kilobit range, if we extrapolate that low,
we might end up with thousands of seconds

Jon: I might know why this is happening. Lower bitrates means longer
amounts of content time per bitrate, which moves to burstier requests
for more efficiency.

Ian: Music services grab the entire song at the beginning. Wanted to go
to the open issue... are operators going to do any sliding window stuff,
or they only going to look at all the probably-Youtube traffic and if
there's too much of it, you're just going to call us. This is useful
anyway, 20s was too short for a lot of use cases. But some people are
probably going to do things at larger aggregates anyway.

Marcus: We can provide guidance here. but per-flow versus aggregate is
not something we can force here. Different providers take different
approaches and will continue to do so. To Ian's point, I hope we end up
with something more agnostic than that.

Anoop: Our experiments make some assumptions about the ISP
environment...

Marcus: The difference between flows and aggregates doesn't have to be
that large. You're trying to measure the video session. Don't now how
common parallel video connections are today, if it is common.

Jon: It would be helpful to understand how this is measured, just to
understand how the system works end to end.

Martin Duke: If we're not going to specify how this is measured, will we
need to expose the measurement method in the SCONE signal to avoid
accidental noncompliance? (chair request: please file an issue)

Kazuho: not always the case that all the flows belong to one app. If you
have a signal indicating granularity, it won't always be actionable. So
I prefer per-flow signaling. In reality, SCONE is about optimizing
behavior for clients that comply. CSPs can apply limits per subscriber,
not per flow, under the assumption that there's only one flow per
subscriber.

\#5 Client-initiated signal

Marcus reviews his summary in issue 5. Points out that longer bitrate
windows tend to be more application agnostic.

Mirja: I never saw this as an indication for video traffic. The protocol
we're designing is the protocol wants to know what the bitrate is.
Advice in the document should be "if you know that the flow might
benefit from knowing the rate limit, then use SCONE".

Brian: points out we're not chartered to define endpoint-to-network
signaling (chair hat)

Kazuho: often the case that clients don't know what the connection is
going to be used for at connection time. Together with 120s window, it
becomes fairly safe just to turn SCONE on for every flow if you're SCONE
capable.

Dan Druta: we're trying to address ABR, not all video. Knowing that
traffic is likely to be ABR is useful for DSCP

Mirja: to Kazuho, I'd like to see a recommendation in the draft that you
don't set the *early* indication on a connection if you don't know what
it's used for.

Marcus: This would be a great thing to do some experimentation around,
safety of average windows. Can we move away from a model that needs to
segregate ABR. I tend to agree with Kazuho, sending SCONE generously
would be very safe for everything except bulk transfer.

Ian: Trying to work through safety for always-scone. Can use 0rtt
resumption information. Send on almost everything and see what happens
probably works? Sending only on flows you know are going to be ABR'd
will be hard.

Martin: confused about directionality. This is usually a server to
client problem. Client doesn't know a priori, should almost always send
the client initiated signal as a TP.

Matt: history here is that information is on the wire, but it's not
convenient for the network element (inside TLS extension in encrypted
Initial). Moving this into its own header makes it easier to see.

Martin: A client indication of SCONE is going to be speculative.

Matt: Most traffic is generated by client/server pairs where the shape
of the traffic and scone-applicability is certain. Apps talking to known
servers. Generic browser case this isn't true.

Marcus: even with noncompliant servers, consequence is that network will
initiate two-minute measurement and might fall back to throttling.
Getting this wrong sometimes isn't *that* bad. Why do we need early
indication? For load they don't see the indication on, they'll do DPI
for some time being. Waiting two minutes for those to adapt is probably
not going to happen.

Alan Frindell: everything we can do to get off specific

Renjie Tang: what do you expect at the hackathon?

Brian: I'd be thrilled if we had interop testable implementations but
that might be aggressive. Sounds like there's an emerging discussion
about

Next Step  
Conclusion (5minutes)  
Presenter: Chairs

